---
title: What to Look for in Co-founders - Intention, Intuition or Intelligence?
date: 2025-12-28
category: Startups
excerpt: Choosing the right co-founder is critical for startup success. Learn which qualities matter most - intention, intuition, or intelligence - and how to prioritize them.
tags: startups, co-founders, founding-team, entrepreneurship
readTime: 7
slug: cofounder-intention-intuition-intelligence
---

# Introduction


ARTICLE TITLE
What to look for in co-founders - Intention, Intuition or Intelligence?

ARTICLE
before talking about what to look for in co-founders, it is important to understand why we need co-founders in the first place. Co-founders bring diverse skills, perspectives, and resources that can significantly enhance a startup's chances of success. They can share the workload, provide emotional support, and contribute to strategic decision-making. However, not all co-founders are created equal, and choosing the right ones is crucial.

One thumb rule is to look for co-founders who complement your skills and fill gaps in your expertise. For instance, if you are strong in technical skills but lack business acumen, finding a co-founder with a background in business development or marketing can be beneficial.

BODY
When embarking on the journey of building a startup, one of the most critical decisions you'll make is choosing your co-founders. The right co-founder can be the difference between success and failure. But what qualities should you prioritize when selecting a co-founder? Should you look for intention, intuition, or intelligence? Let's explore these three attributes to help you make an informed decision.
1. Intention
Intention refers to the purpose and commitment a potential co-founder brings to the table. A co-founder with strong intention is deeply passionate about the startup's mission and vision. They are willing to invest time, effort, and resources to see the venture succeed. When evaluating intention, consider the following:
Alignment of values: Ensure that your potential co-founder shares similar values and long-term goals for the startup.
Commitment level: Assess their willingness to dedicate themselves fully to the venture, especially during challenging times.
Resilience: Look for someone who can persevere through setbacks and maintain a positive outlook.
2. Intuition
Intuition is the ability to make decisions based on gut feelings and instincts. A co-founder with strong intuition can navigate uncertainty and make quick, effective decisions. When assessing intuition, consider:
Pattern recognition: A co-founder with good intuition can identify trends and opportunities that others might overlook.
Risk assessment: They should be able to gauge potential risks and make informed decisions without relying solely on data.
Adaptability: An intuitive co-founder can pivot and adjust strategies based on changing circumstances.
3. Intelligence
Intelligence encompasses cognitive abilities, problem-solving skills, and knowledge. A co-founder with high intelligence can contribute significantly to the startup's growth and innovation. When evaluating intelligence, consider:
Domain expertise: Look for a co-founder with relevant knowledge and skills that complement your own.
Problem-solving skills: They should be able to analyze complex situations and develop effective solutions.
Learning agility: An intelligent co-founder should be open to learning and adapting to new information and challenges.
In conclusion, while intention, intuition, and intelligence are all valuable qualities in a co-founder, the ideal candidate will often possess a combination of these attributes. Prioritize finding someone whose intentions align with yours, who can navigate uncertainty with intuition, and who brings intelligence to the table. By carefully considering these factors, you'll be better positioned to build a strong founding team that can drive your startup toward success.

CONCLUSION
In conclusion, while intention, intuition, and intelligence are all valuable qualities in a co-founder, the ideal candidate will often possess a combination of these attributes. Prioritize finding someone whose intentions align with yours, who can navigate uncertainty with intuition, and who brings intelligence to the table. By carefully considering these factors, you'll be better positioned to build a strong founding team that can drive your startup toward success.
If you have to select two out of the three, intention and intuition often take precedence. A co-founder with strong intention ensures commitment and alignment with the startup's vision, while intuition allows for agile decision-making in the face of uncertainty. Intelligence is undoubtedly important, but it can sometimes be supplemented through hiring or advisory roles. Ultimately, the right balance will depend on your specific startup needs and personal strengths.
if you have to select one quality, intention is often the most critical. A co-founder with genuine passion and commitment to the venture can inspire and motivate the team, fostering a collaborative and resilient culture. While intelligence and intuition are valuable, they may not compensate for a lack of dedication and shared vision. Therefore, prioritize intention when choosing your co-founders to ensure a strong foundation for your startup's success.
